# Push_swap

## Score

-  125%

## Project Highlights

This project challenges you to implement a sorting algorithm using a set of predefined stack manipulation operations. It provides an opportunity to:

- Gain a deep understanding of sorting algorithms and their complexities.
- Learn and implement basic algorithms for sorting.
- Explore and optimize the complexity of sorting operations for different integer configurations.

## The Rules

- **Rules:**
  - You have 2 stacks named `a` and `b`.
  - At the beginning:
    - The stack `a` contains a random assortment of non-duplicated negative and/or positive numbers.
    - The stack `b` is empty.
  - The objective is to sort the numbers in stack `a` in ascending order using the following operations:
    - `sa` (swap a): Swap the first two elements at the top of stack `a`.
    - `sb` (swap b): Swap the first two elements at the top of stack `b`.
    - `ss`: Perform `sa` and `sb` simultaneously.
    - `pa` (push a): Move the first element at the top of stack `b` to the top of stack `a`.
    - `pb` (push b): Move the first element at the top of stack `a` to the top of stack `b`.
    - `ra` (rotate a): Shift all elements of stack `a` up by one position.
    - `rb` (rotate b): Shift all elements of stack `b` up by one position.
    - `rr`: Perform `ra` and `rb` simultaneously.
    - `rra` (reverse rotate a): Shift all elements of stack `a` down by one position.
    - `rrb` (reverse rotate b): Shift all elements of stack `b` down by one position.
    - `rrr`: Perform `rra` and `rrb` simultaneously.

## Usage

To use the `push_swap` program, follow these steps:

1. Compile the program using the provided Makefile.
2. Run the program with a list of integers as arguments. The first argument should be at the top of the stack.
3. The program will display the smallest list of instructions to sort the stack in ascending order, with each instruction separated by a newline character.
4. If no parameters are specified, the program will not display anything and return the prompt.
5. In case of errors, such as non-integer arguments or duplicates, the program will display "Error" followed by a newline character on the standard error.

**Example usage:**

```shell
$>./push_swap 2 1 3 6 5 8
sa
pb
pb
pb
sa
pa
pa
pa
```

## Checker - Validation of Sorting Instructions

The bonus part of this project introduces a program called "checker," which is designed to validate the correctness of sorting instructions generated by the "push_swap" program. The "checker" program verifies whether the list of instructions provided successfully sorts the stack in the desired order.

#### Purpose

The "checker" program serves as a validation tool to ensure that the sorting instructions produced by the "push_swap" program effectively sort the stack. It helps verify the correctness of the generated instructions, preventing any errors or improper sorting.

#### Usage

To use the "checker" program, follow these steps:

1. Compile the program using the provided Makefile (bonus target).
2. Run the "push_swap" program with a list of integers as arguments to generate sorting instructions.
3. Pipe the output of the "push_swap" program to the "checker" program using the `|` operator.
4. The "checker" program will read the instructions and execute them on the stack.
5. If the instructions result in a properly sorted stack 'a' and an empty stack 'b,' the "checker" program will display "OK."
6. If there are issues with the instructions or the stack is not correctly sorted, the "checker" program will display "KO."
7. In case of errors, such as non-integer arguments or duplicates in the input, the "checker" program will display "Error."

**Example usage:**

```shell
$>ARG="4 67 3 87 23"; ./push_swap $ARG | ./checker $ARG
OK
```

## Author

[Archibald Thirion](https://github.com/Archips)
